 Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM

Skip to Main Content




Home » about Communications » Author Center » Author Guidelines

     ●   About Communications
     ●   Current Issue
     ●   Digital Edition
     ●   Sample Issue
     ●   FAQs
     ●   Author Center
             ❍ Author Guidelines

                     ■ Research Highlights template

                     ■ Submit an Article

             ❍ ACM Copyright Form

             ❍ ACM Copyright Policy

             ❍ Submit an Article

     ●   2011 Editorial Calendar
     ●   Editorial Board
     ●   Editor's Letters
     ●   Editorial Staff
     ●   Contact Us
     ●   For Advertisers

Communicate!

     ●   Send Us Feedback
     ●   Submit a Letter to the Editor


author guidelines
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Introduction
2. Editorial Structure and Submissions
    2.1 Editorial Structure

 http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (1 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
 Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM

   2.2 Submissions
   2.3 Section Descriptions and Guidelines
       2.3.1 News
       2.3.2 Viewpoints
       2.3.3 Practice
       2.3.4 Contributed Articles
       2.3.5 Review Articles
       2.3.6 Research Highlights
       2.3.7 Technical Perspective
       2.3.8 Letters to the Editor
       2.3.9 Last Byte
       2.3.10 Virtual Extension
3. Manuscript Preparation
4. Supporting Online Material
5. ACM Policies
6. Conflicts of Interest

1. Introduction

Communications of the ACM is the leading print and online magazine for professionals working in the
computing and information technology fields. The Communications monthly magazine is recognized as
the most trusted and knowledgeable source of news, opinions, research, technology, and public-policy
information for scientists and practitioners, and has developed a reputation over more than 50 years for
providing the highest-quality information by and for computing professionals in industry and academia.

The format and editorial structure of the Communications magazine underwent a significant change in
2008. A new editorial model was developed to broaden its appeal to both practitioners and researchers in
industry and academia in all fields of computing and information technology, and to provide a more
international and diverse forum for ideas, practical applications of technology, and scholarly research.
Submissions for the monthly magazine may include content that can be presented online and is distinct
from material submitted for the print publication.

There is great competition for publishing articles in the monthly magazine. Submissions must address
topics of relevance and professional value to a very broad-based readership. The Author Guidelines
provide information on submitting articles for the monthly magazine. It is best to remember that most
readers are not experts in an author’s particular discipline, but expect to get a broad perspective on
computing practice and research. It is important for authors to take into account the broad composition
of the ACM membership.

Communications' readers represent every known computing discipline. Among ACM’s 65,000
professional members, about 65% are computing practitioners and managers and 30% are academics and

 http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (2 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
 Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM


researchers. The majority of readers have advanced degrees; among the professional members, 35%
have master’s degrees and 31% hold a Ph.D. Most members have been involved in computing for more
than 12 years.

2. Editorial Structure and Submissions
       2.1 Editorial Structure

The Communications magazine consists primarily of six main editorial sections: News, Viewpoints,
Practice, Review Articles, Contributed Articles, and Research Highlights. In addition, the magazine
publishes Letters to the Editor and a section called Last Byte.

In order to manage the flow of articles as efficiently as possible and to ensure a high degree of rigor and
quality, an editorial board oversees the selection of content for the magazine. The board operates both as
a single unit and in more focused teams aligned with the editorial sections.

While the selection criteria and editorial process for articles varies by section, the board is responsible
for maintaining a consistently high level of quality for all sections to ensure that the magazine addresses
a broad spectrum of topics that appeal to an international readership of practitioners, researchers, and
educators.
       2.2 Submissions

Communications continues to welcome unsolicited submissions for publication in the magazine. Certain
sections, including Practice and Last Byte, publish articles by invitation only.

Submissions to the magazine must address topics of relevance and professional value and be written for
a broad readership. Submissions that provide a broad perspective on computing practice and research
appeal to a larger segment of the ACM membership and computing community will be given priority
over articles that require a significant level of knowledge of specific subject-matter expertise.

All submissions are reviewed by the Communications Editorial Board and Editor-in-Chief, who reserve
the right to accept or reject any and all submissions at their discretion.
        2.3 Section Descriptions and Guidelines
Manuscripts for the monthly magazine's editorial sections are expected to adhere to the following
guidelines:

         2.3.1 News

         News publishes a selection of brief news updates and in-depth news articles (up to 2,000 words)
         on a range of U.S. and international topics in computing, information technology, and public-
         policy issues.



 http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (3 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM


        Communications' News department employs full-time professional science and technology
        writers and an expanding network of freelance writers to provide the most current news related to
        computing and related topics for publication in the print and online editions of the magazine.

         If you are a professional science or technology writer or have written a current news article on a
        topic you believe is appropriate for the computing community, please send a brief email message
        with your submission to News@cacm.acm.org.

        2.3.2 Viewpoints

        Viewpoints is dedicated to opinions and views that pertain to issues of broad interest to the
        computing community, typically, but not exclusively, of a nontechnical nature. Controversial
        issues will not be avoided but be dealt with fairly. Authors are welcome to submit carefully
        reasoned “Viewpoints” in which positions are substantiated by facts or principled arguments.
        Moreover, this section periodically hosts editorial debates in a Point/Counterpoint format in
        which both sides of an issue are represented.

        Viewpoints articles should consist of up to 1,800 words, include a small number of references
        (generally, no more than 10), and be submitted to http://cacm.acm.org/submissions.

        2.3.3 Practice

        Practice targets professionals in the software industry with an emphasis on software engineering.
        Articles published in this section frame and define technical problems and challenges ahead
        while helping readers sharpen their own thinking and ability to pursue innovative solutions.
        Practice does not focus on industry news or the latest solutions. Rather, articles explore
        disruptive technologies that are just on the verge of breaking through.

        This section highlights problems that are likely to arise and poses questions that software
        engineers should be thinking about while dissecting industry issues that matter most and
        examines the challenges faced by software architects, project leaders, IT managers, and corporate
        decision makers.

        Submissions to this section are by invitation only. Detailed submission guidelines will be
        forwarded to invited authors.

        2.3.4 Contributed Articles

        Contributed Articles cover the wide and abundant spectrum of the computing field—its open
        challenges, technical visions and perspectives, educational aspects, societal impact, significant
        applications and research results of high significance and broad interest. Following the roots of


http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (4 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM

        Communications, these submissions are peer-reviewed to ensure the highest quality. Topics
        covered must reach out to a very broad technical audience. While articles appearing in an ACM
        Transactions journal are aimed at a specialized audience, articles in Communications should be
        aimed at the broad computing and information technology community.

        A Contributed Article should set the background and provide introductory references, define
        fundamental concepts, compare alternate approaches, and explain the significance or application
        of a particular technology or result by means of well-reasoned text and pertinent graphical
        material. The use of sidebars to illustrate significant points is encouraged.

        Full-length Contributed Articles should consist of up to 4,000 words, contain no more than 25
        references, 3-4 tables, 3-4 figures, and be submitted to: http://cacm.acm.org/submissions.

        Submissions to the Contributed Articles section should be accompanied by a cover letter
        indicating:

        • Title and the central theme of the article;
        • Statement addressing why the material is important to the computing field and of value to the
        Communications reader; and,
        • Names and email addresses of three or more recognized experts who would be considered
        appropriate to review the submission.

        2.3.5 Review Articles

        Review Articles describe new developments of broad significance to the computing field and
        highlight unresolved questions and future directions. Unlike an article in ACM Computing
        Surveys, which provides an in-depth introduction to a technical area, a review article in
        Communications should offer a high-level perspective on a technical area.

        Authors are encouraged to begin the process by making a pre-submission inquiry, which should
        include a proposed title, abstract, and a few key references. Proposals will be reviewed and
        prospective authors will either receive a formal invitation to prepare a full manuscript (note: an
        invitation to write an article does not guarantee its publication) or a rejection based on the
        suitability of their proposal for publication in the magazine. Authors who receive a rejection, but
        are convinced of the importance of their work, may submit a complete manuscript for
        consideration by the magazine’s Editorial Board.

        All Review Articles undergo a thorough peer-review process. Submissions should consist of up
        to 6,000 words, include an abstract and introduction, up to 40 references, and be submitted to
        http://cacm.acm.org/submissions.

        2.3.6 Research Highlights

http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (5 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM



        Research Highlights provides readers with a collection of outstanding research articles, selected
        from the broad spectrum of computing-research conferences. Articles are first nominated by
        Editorial Board Members or Approved Nominating Organizations and are then subject to final
        selection by the Editorial Board. Authors are then invited to submit their article, after they have
        rewritten and expanded their scope as appropriate for the broad readership of Communications.

        It is important to note that publication in Communications, a computing-technology and science
        magazine, does not conflict with publication in archival journals. Articles in archival journals are
        typically expanded versions of conference publications, while Communications aims to publish
        somewhat shorter and higher-level versions of these articles.

        Full-length Research Highlights should consist of no more than eight pages according to the
        CACM Research Highlights Template and contain no more than 25 references. Authors should
        note this template is provided as a helpful measuring tool only; it does not reflect camera-ready
        copy.

        Each selected Research Highlights article is preceded by a one-page (700-800 word) summary.

        2.3.7 Technical Perspective

        Technical Perspective summary essays provide readers with an overview of the underlying
        motivation, the important ideas of the featured Research Highlight, and its scientific and
        practical significance. Technical Perspective articles will be written by noted experts in the field
        addressed by the Research Highlight article and will be invited by the Editorial Board.

        Papers should be submitted to http://cacm.acm.org/submissions.

        2.3.8 Letters to the Editor

        Letters to the Editor consists of comments on articles published in both the print and online
        editions of Communications, as well as selections or contributions from various blogs published
        by ACM as appropriate.

        Submitted letters should not exceed 500 words and should include the contributor’s name, email
        address, and postal address. Due to limited space, Communications cannot publish all submitted
        letters in the printed magazine. Whenever possible, high-quality letters will be posted on the
        Communications Web site. Preference will be given to feedback that begins new discussions,
        adds significant new points to previous discussions, or is highly time-sensitive. Send letters to
        letters@cacm.acm.org.

        2.3.9 Last Byte

http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (6 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM



        Last Byte consists of lighter-fare content that will appear as both regularly appearing columns,
        such as Q&As, futurist articles dealing with computing, and mathematical puzzles for those who
        like a good challenge. If you have an idea for a one-time or regularly appearing Last Byte
        contribution that you believe is appropriate for the computing community, please send a brief
        email message with your idea to LastByte@cacm.acm.org.

        2.3.10 Virtual Extension

        As with all magazines, page limitations often prevent the publication of articles that might
        otherwise be included in the print edition. To ensure timely publication, ACM created
        Communications' Virtual Extension (VE).

        VE articles undergo the same rigorous review process as those in the print edition and are
        accepted for publication on their merit. Decisions regarding VE articles, like all Communications
        articles, are made by the Editor-in-Chief. These articles are available in the ACM Digital Library.

        3. Manuscript Preparation
        The preferred file type for submitted manuscripts, with the exception of Research Highlights, is
        Word or RTF, but PDF is also acceptable. Research Highlights papers should be submitted as
        LaTeX files; a Research Highlights template has been provided to help gauge length
        restrictions. Use of this template does not indicate camera-ready copy.

        All material submitted to Communications is edited and copyedited.
        All files should reflect the following guidelines:

        Headlines: Article titles should be inviting and manageable. Authors should consider using 6-7
        words at most and avoid the use of colons if possible.

        References: References (see the Contributed Articles section for citation limits) to previous
        work should be included at the end of the article. References must be ordered alphabetically by
        first author and numbered. All listed references must be referred to in text by their corresponding
        number.

        Artwork: Clear sketches and accurate graphs are sufficient for initial submissions. Upon
        acceptance of an article, authors will be given instructions regarding the submission of final
        artwork. Any artwork derived from sources other than the author's own must be accompanied by
        an appropriate letter of permission and source citation. It is the author's responsibility to obtain
        such copyright permission and credit wording.

        Accepted Submissions: Upon article acceptance, Communications editors provide authors with
        additional information regarding final electronic submissions. The lead author for each

http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (7 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM

        manuscript will be contacted once the article has been slated for publication.

        Once scheduled, Communications editors will edit the article for substance and presentation. All
        articles will also be copyedited to conform to The Chicago Manual of Style (University of
        Chicago Press), as well as Communications' house style.
        All tables and figures are redrawn for consistency by a graphic artist using the drafts supplied.
        Authors should provide concise titles and caption copy.
        Articles published in the Communications magazine will run in a two-column or three-column
        format. Therefore, authors must make sure any programming code or equations included in the
        manuscript are set for correct line breaks, indentations, and punctuation. Code that runs more
        than 35 characters wide will be pulled from text and reset as a figure, in which case a figure
        caption must be supplied.

        4. Supporting Online Material

        Informational resources for the online presentation of articles in every editorial section of
        Communications are welcome. These materials may include but are not limited to additional
        tables; figures; URLs for online references; video files; audio files; a list of print references;
        PowerPoint presentations; and other related materials and links. Information regarding
        submission of this material is available upon acceptance.

        5. ACM Policies
        Articles that have been submitted simultaneously to other magazines or journals will be declined
        outright and not reconsidered.
        Authors are encouraged to review the ACM Policy and Procedures on Plagiarism, ACM's
        Copyright Transfer Form, and the Addendum to ACM Copyright Form: Supplemental Material
        prior to submitting material to Communications.

        6. Conflicts of Interest
        Communications has a responsibility to publish comprehensive, trustworthy, and unbiased
        material. It is therefore imperative that Communications' editors be informed of any relationships
        authors may hold that might possibly pose a conflict of interest.
        Authors submitting manuscripts to Communications for consideration are therefore required to
        declare any academic, corporate, government, or professional affiliations, funding sources,
        financial arrangements, patent holdings, or any other relationships that may be construed as
        influencing positions in or raising any doubt as to the veracity or objectivity of the material
        presented in the submitted manuscript.
        The onus is on authors to disclose any conflict of interest that might bias their work. This
        information should be addressed in the cover letter accompanying an article or in the article itself.
        In addition, all financial support for the work and any personal and/or proprietary connections to
        the work must be acknowledged in the submitted manuscript.



http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (8 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
 Author Guidelines | Communications of the ACM




Back to Top




 http://cacm.acm.org/about-communications/author-center/author-guidelines/ (9 of 9)9/12/2011 8:36:15 AM
